# Aboleth

Before the coming of the gods, aboleths
lurked in primordial oceans and underground
lakes. They reached out with their minds and
seized control of the burgeoning life-forms
of the mortal realm, making those creatures
their slaves. Their dominance made them like
gods. Then the true gods appeared, smashing
the aboleths' empire and freeing their
slaves.

Aboleths have never forgotten.

_**Eternal Memories.**_ Aboleths have
flawless memories. They pass on their
knowledge and experience from generation to
generation. Thus, the injury of their defeat
by the gods remains perfectly preserved in
their minds.

Aboleths' minds are treasure troves of
ancient lore, recalling moments from
prehistory with perfect clarity. They plot
patiently and intricately across eons. Few
creatures can conceive of the extent of an
aboleth's plan.

_**Gods in the Lake.**_ Aboleths dwell in
watery environments, including ocean abysses,
deep lakes, and the Elemental Plane of Water.
In these domains and the lands that adjoin
them, aboleths are like gods, demanding
worship and obedience from their subjects.
When they consume other creatures, aboleths
add the knowledge and experiences of their
prey to their eternal memories.

Aboleths use their telepathic powers to read
the minds of creatures and know their
desires. An aboleth uses this knowledge to
gain a creature's loyalty, promising to
fulfill such wants in exchange for obedience.
Within its lair, the aboleth can further use
its powers to override senses, granting
creatures, such as its followers, the
illusion of promised rewards.

_**Enemies of the Gods.**_ The aboleths' fall
from power is written in stark clarity on
their flawless memories, for aboleths never
truly die. If an aboleth's body is destroyed,
its spirit returns to the Elemental Plane of
Water, where a new body coalesces for it over
days or months.

Ultimately, aboleths dream of overthrowing
the gods and regaining control of the world.
Aboleths have had untold eons to plot and to
prepare their plans for perfect execution.

<a href="./aboleth.md">Aboleth</a>

